Programming The PIC32MX360F512L Using Explorer 

16/32

Your Explorer 16/32 has an on-board programmer, so 
you don't have to buy one if your chip is 
supported, great! However, Microchip left out a lot 
of chips so that the user has to 
jump through some pretty strange hurdles to get it 
to work.
 
Fire up your MPLABX, and click on your main 
project. Just once: this is a bug and you have to 
do it for the next part to work (nice, huh?). Go to 
file, project properties, (it's not greyed out 
now... see what just happened?) and look in the 
Hardware Tool window. You should see in the Starter 
Kit folder a green dot next to PKOB. No? Well it 
seems some applications engineer was too lazy to 
add it. Or maybe he forgot. Or maybe he didn't care 
and you should be smart enough to do it yourself. 
It's amazing that they didn't seem to think it was 
important to add the chip that a major book was 
published with! Here's how you add it yourself and 
avoid silly things like buying a $47 picKit3 when 
you don't need it, or spending hours searching 
forums and learning how to properly edit .jar files 
and avoiding file permission conflicts etc. etc.

Adding your PICMX360F512L to MPLABX so pkob works:
1. E.g., Go to C:\Program Files (x86)\Microchip\MPLABX 
\v3.40\mplab_ide\mdbcore\modules and first create a 
new folder. Copy the file com-microchip-mplab- 
mdbcore-pkobskde.jar and put it in the folder you 
created. I mean come on, this location is obvious, 
right? Somewhat sarcastic? Yeah.
 
2. Copy com-microchip-mplab-mdbcore-pkobskde.jar to 
your desktop.
 
3. Rename ONLY the file extension to .zip.
 
4. Click on zip file and navigate the com folder to 
the end where you find the file 
pkobskde.platformtool.xml, save this file to the 
desktop.
 
5. Edit this file with notepad or notepad++. Add 
your chip name to the list. Save and copy back to 
the zip folder it came from, (in the RIGHT 
location) and replace the file.
 
6. Now rename your .zip file back to .jar. It 
should read com-microchip-mplab-mdbcore- 
pkobskde.zip. See? Simple. Now take this lovely 
little jewel and copy/replace it back to C:\Program 
Files (x86)\Microchip\MPLABX\v3.40\mplab_ide 
\mdbcore\modules.
 
7. Lastly, you have to reset the cache... Oh of 
course! Open up MPLAB, go to help, and about. It 
will be right there snug as a bug. Or just go to 
your own personal version of my example, C:\Users 
\brian\AppData\Local\mplab_ide\Cache\dev\v3.40 and 
delete the var folder. Now fire up MPLABX and 
celebrate.







